When it comes to testing,
I want to start off with the something
called the Pareto Principle.
And so, the reason this is an important
concept that we're going to leverage sort
of going through as we talk about testing.
For those who don't know what
the Pareto principle is,
you might also know it as the 80-20 rule.
And the way it works,
the principle behind it is that,
20% of the effort often
yields to 80% of the results.
And so this is traditionally spoken about
in sales from like 20% of your clients
represents 80% of your sales.
And so, the reason why this is
a principle I'd like to drill in,
when it comes to making decisions for
your application, is that,
a lot of times we focus on the other 80%.
That doesn't yield like the 80%
that use the 20% of results.
When in reality we really wanna
focus on the 20% of effort and
focus the results in that 80%.
And so, when it comes to testing,
we're gonna refer to this later but
I want to at least preference that In
case anyone's not familiar with it.
Okay, so, when it comes to testing,
traditionally, we know them,
like the model testing is explained as
like unit testing, integration testing,
and then end to end testing.
And so, as a quick recap, when it comes to
unit testing, what are we talking about?
Well, from a tooling perspective,
typically this is done with either Jest or
Mocha.
As far as the thing that's most popular,
amongest view applications,
Jess is typically the way that people
use to test their applications.
And so if you're choosing basically your
next tool definitely recommend starting
with just there's a lot from
a developer experience perspective,
that's really nice.
From like, a fairly fast runtime, as well
as like good error message handling.
So, Jest is basically the proverbial tool,
for a view application so far.
But, you probably thinking like
what about Vue Test Utils?
Isn't that also for unit testing?
And so, if you check out the V3 Doc's,
there is an updated testing guide,
currently view test utils is designed as a
library to really sort of abstract the way
some of the common functionality that
we would need to test view apps.
But at this point it's more or
less recommended as like, an advanced
way to test like, sort of like,
libraries, plugins like, libraries and,
sorry, let me try that again.
And so, if you test utils, is useful at
the sort of the lower level testing and
what most of us really want actually at
the end of the day is when it comes to
unit testing is actually
component level testing.
We wanna go through and
we want to like render things out.
We wanna check things out, we wanna click
things, we wanna see what's returning.
And so, right now there is a sort of
a shift in the testing sort of ecosystem
where component testing is
becoming more of a thing.
And so, one of the recommendations by the
testing team is actually check out this
testing library.
I believe it's by Kent C Dodds.
And so, in there,
there's actually a view library, right?
For working with view apps.
And so, they've done a lot of good work as
far as abstracting a lot of common test
scenarios and
like making it easy to work with.
And so the documentation
there seems pretty solid.
So, if you're looking for this level of
testing and you're starting to wanna beef
out that piece,
definitely look into the testing library.
But I also want to go ahead and make
a special shout out to Cypress who is also
working on their own
component testing as well.
And so, one of the team
members on the testing team,
Jessica Sachs, is working on it, along
with some other view team members as well.
And so, in there, they actually like
there's a whole channel regarding like
trying to figure out how to
create good component testing,
using the Cypress ecosystem.
And so, keep an eye on both of those
projects, as you're playing around and
seeing, what works best for
your application.
As far as some best practices for
writing unit tests,
couple of things to keep in mind is that,
1, don't test that Vue works.
So believe it or not,
this is actually fairly common.
Where people will, for example,
the writing unit tests in a way that.
When the component loads,
they'll be like check that data exists.
Or check that computed exists, like,
view already comes with its own set of
tests to make sure that everything works.
So, your goal then is to focus on the
things that impact the end result rather
than testing the internals of like did
this load at this particular time.
Simply like if you're trying to
make sure that like a property,
like when you click on something,
it changes test for that, but
don't test that like that the state
loads a certain way and changes.
So, [LAUGH] you can trust view that view
is testing its internals correctly is
basically the point here.
And when you're using these testing
libraries, a lot of them have like there's
deep rendering and
then there's shallow rendering.
And so, the general recommendation is to
primarily stick with shallow rendering.
So when it comes to shallow rendering,
you can imagine
that if you have a parent component
that has a lot of children underneath.
Like when you have deep rendering what
it does is the testing framework will
actually like try to render every
single thing that goes under it.
And so, instead like most of
the time we're trying to test is
like whether the component like
certain things are called, and
if you need to test something at the child
level, then you should have units.
And so, this is why the primary
recommendation is to stick with
shallow rendering,
that basically ensures that you focus
on just the component you care about.
And then, because otherwise, if you have
a common component that is shared between
multiple tests, and it's not necessarily
related to the implementation
of how that particular component works.
You end up breaking a lot of tests
inadvertently with if you use
something that if you don't
use shallow rendering, so
these are the the main things to keep in
mind when you're writing these unit tests.
And then, the other thing to keep in
mind and this is less of a unit test and
more of a best practices thing.
Is that, to actually build those unit
tests directly into like when you're
generating components, so
other people timeout factories and
those sort of things.
In Chris Fritz's view enterprise
boilerplate, you'll notice that he
uses hydrogen in order to like
basically create new components.
That then automatically scaffold
out not only the component, but
it'll scaffold out basically
a basic unit test.
That basically checks like,
does this component render correctly.
And the reason why this is
important is because, as we know,
testing is a notoriously difficult
topic that most people want to do, but,
ultimately don't often have time for.
And so, the more you can lower those
barriers of like how to get your test
setup and like what the syntax is.
The better it is like you'll get,
get basically higher participation
as far as fighting those unit tests.
And so by building your unit tests
into generators, you are trying to
basically like encourage your developers
to keep on that path of writing tests for
your components.